# Pressure-Drop-Prediction
Abstract: Accurate measurement of pressure drop in non-Newtonian fluids for oil and gas wells is expensive and time-consuming. Many empirical and analytical solutions had been proposed to anticipate the loss of pressure in non-Newtonian fluids for concentric and eccentric pipes and numerous attempts have been made to extend these developed relationships to forecast the pressure drop in the annulus and drill pipe. However, there still remains a void in the experimental and theoretical studies to establish a standalone model capable of estimating the pressure drop in concentric and eccentric annuli for non-Newtonian fluids with higher accuracy and less computation requirements. Rheological properties of the such fluids like flow index, etc., and physical boundaries of system such as flow rate, effective diameter etc., cumulatively dominate the pressure gradient in an annulus and correct estimation for pressure drop in such conditions is very vital for optimizing the drilling operation. In this paper an attempt has been made to analyze the performance of different data driven algorithms such as random forest (RF), artificial neural network (ANN), bayesian neural network (BNN) and support vector machines (SVM) to predict the pressure loss in concentric and eccentric annulus for Herschel-Bulkley fluids with the help of data gathered from the literature. BNN and RF predicted the pressure loss with least mean absolute error of 3.2% and 2.57 % and coefficient determination of 0.988 and 0.989 respectively. The predicted values lie in close proximity of the experimental data and both the algorithms were able to generalize the pressure loss calculation for concentric and eccentric annulus. An attempt has also been made to quantify the importance of each input parameter that affects the pressure drop ΔP with help of RF algorithm and compare it against established literature study. 
